Nhan Cao
Phil 211 – Ancient Greek Philosophy
Final Exam
December 11th, 2018
Word count 796
Final
Nicomachean Ethics is Aristotle’s most complete work on ethics, which still influences
nowadays. Unlike Plato’s dry and strict formula of ethics, Aristotle’s view is rather intuitive.
Before discussing how Aristotle defines the ethics virtue and its value, it is important to
know where it fits in the big picture. Aristotle holds that "all human action aims at some end;"
and while "some ends are merely instrumental," (p. 80) all of them must eventually lead to
one purpose, happiness. Happiness, however, is not the same for everyone; our personal true
happiness is reflected by who we are. The first step to define happiness is to clarify its
difference from pleasure. Human is considered different than the rest of the animal kingdom,
differs in a way that makes human happiness could not merely pleasure, but of a higher form.
Aristotle deems those who think of their happiness as pleasure astray, judges their life as
meaningless when all they could ever wish for is amusement. That being said, pleasure still
plays an important part in our happiness, but should not be everything happiness represents.
Happiness is then defined to be attained by "fulfilling the end of being human" (p. 81).
That end is not something we chose. To the philosopher, it is "given by nature and makes up
the essence of our humanity." It separates us from objects, plants, and other animals. Human
purpose is to find a way to "[exhibit] excellence" (p. 81) in that end. The Greek philosopher
does not see happiness as a destination that we can reach, but rather the action we took and
the way we execute it.

Human thinks, and human feels. Those are what define us as human, and because of
that, "the road to happiness involves two dimensions" (p. 82). It means by one way or another,
in order to fulfill a person, both his needs of thinking and feeling necessarily have to be met.
Understanding that, Aristotle states that the right path to fulfillment is for one to "rationally
judge what are the right principles to follow,"(p. 82) - the exercise of intellectual virtue, and to
discipline his appetites and emotions to follow those rules - the exercise of moral virtue. It is
first to identify what is morally good, and then to direct human’s desire to the good so that
while satisfying ourselves, we would be making positive impacts on the surrounding society.
Moral is "knowing, internalizing, and applying" (p. 80). Practical wisdom is the
"knowing", judging what is to be conducted. It is composed of mainly two parts: philosophic
wisdom and practical wisdom. While philosophic wisdom is the knowledge of the unchanged
structure of reality, represented by modern science, describing the motion of the universe,
practical wisdom is the humane part of human’s rationality, in charge of understanding
morality. Intellectual virtue, however, is all about knowing; and that is not enough to make a
person moral. The means to attach that knowledge to our action is the moral virtue. Moral
virtue configures the internalizing part, making a good deed an act of voluntary. The true
form of moral is manifested not only in the result of our action but also, more importantly, our
motive which is involved by the voluntary level of the action. As mentioned before, the
physical, emotional needs are required to be satisfied, and moral virtue is there to "balance
[these] desire and emotions"(p. 82), to make sure the needs are oriented to be toward the
good or, at least, confined in a proper, acceptable limit. Finally, the last step, bringing the
result of the internal conflict to the reality, is applying. Aristotle addresses applying moral as a

trained behavior. Unlike the intellectual aspect of our soul, moral is not a state, it is a pattern
accumulated through time and consistency. Aristotle, thus, presses on his view that moral
requires practice to master. As it is not just about knowing what is right, but also acting on it
voluntarily, moral actions, just like any other skill or routine we do, need to be got used to with
in order to form persistence and reliability. Aristotle states there is no proper algorithm that
can draw the line of the soundness of a judgment, and that the way to find our balance, which
he calls the "mean", is to adjust accordingly to our previous mistake, experience to can finally
find a place that we can justify our action with ourselves. Another important note worth
mentioning is that, even though morality is reflected in the choice we made, there is a gray
eare made of compulsion and ignorance that would alter the action’s voluntary, thus, affect
the morality of the action’s motive.
To sum up, to Aristotle, a morally just person is someone who carefully reasons,
desires to do the right thing, knows the proper goal in life, and can carry out what he believes
in.
References
"Ethics: Keeping Things in Balance." Voyage of Discovery, by William F. Lawhead, 2nd ed.,
Wadsworth, 2002, pp. 80–85.


